docs/documentation/smart-contracts/precompiles/erc20.mdx, before:

---
title: "ERC20"
description: "Standard ERC20 token functionality for native Cosmos tokens"
icon: "refresh-cw"
keywords: ['erc20', 'token', 'precompile', 'cosmos sdk', 'native token', 'token pair', 'fungible token', 'allowance', 'transfer', 'approve', 'balance', 'total supply', 'decimals', 'token standard']
---

## Overview
The ERC20 precompile provides standard ERC20 token functionality for native Cosmos tokens that have been registered for EVM compatibility. Each registered token pair gets its own unique precompile contract address. This allows for seamless interaction with native Cosmos assets through familiar ERC20 interfaces.

**Address**: Dynamic (assigned per token pair registration)

**Related Module**: [x/erc20](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/modules/erc20)

## Gas Costs

<Info>
Gas costs are approximated and may vary based on token complexity and chain settings.
</Info>

| Method | Gas Cost |
|---|---|
| `name()` | ~3,000 gas |
| `symbol()` | ~3,000 gas |
| `decimals()` | ~2,000 gas |
| `totalSupply()` | ~2,500 gas |
| `balanceOf(address)` | ~2,900 gas |
| `allowance(address,address)` | ~3,000 gas |
| `transfer(address,uint256)` | ~35,000 gas |
| `transferFrom(address,address,uint256)` | ~40,000 gas |
| `approve(address,uint256)` | ~30,000 gas |
| `increaseAllowance(address,uint256)` | ~30,500 gas |
| `decreaseAllowance(address,uint256)` | ~30,500 gas |

## Token Pair Mapping

The ERC20 precompile works through a token pair mapping system:

1. **Native Cosmos Token**: Each Cosmos SDK denomination (e.g., `uatom`, `stake`) exists as a native token
2. **ERC20 Contract**: A corresponding ERC20 precompile contract is created at a unique address
3. **Bidirectional Conversion**: Tokens can be converted between native and ERC20 representations
4. **Dynamic Addresses**: Each token pair gets its own precompile address when registered

<Info>
The precompile address is deterministically generated based on the token denomination. Query the x/erc20 module to find the precompile address for a specific token.
</Info>

## Methods

### `totalSupply`
Returns the total amount of tokens in existence.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

// The address of the ERC20 precompile is dynamic, assigned when a token pair is registered.
const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

// A generic ERC20 ABI is sufficient for read-only calls
const erc20Abi = ["function totalSupply() view returns (uint256)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getTotalSupply() {
  try {
    const totalSupply = await contract.totalSupply();
    console.log("Total Supply:", totalSupply.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching total supply:", error);
  }
}

getTotalSupply();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for totalSupply()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x18160ddd"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `balanceOf`
Returns the token balance of a specified account.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const accountAddress = "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045"; // Placeholder
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function balanceOf(address account) view returns (uint256)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getBalance() {
  try {
    const balance = await contract.balanceOf(accountAddress);
    console.log(`Balance of ${accountAddress}:`, balance.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching balance:", error);
  }
}

getBalance();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL>, <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>, and the placeholder address with your actual data.
# Data is ABI-encoded: function selector + padded address
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x70a08231000000000000000000000000d8da6bf26964af9d7eed9e03e53415d37aa96045"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `transfer`
Moves tokens from the caller's account to a recipient.

### `transferFrom`
Moves tokens from one account to another using an allowance.

### `approve`
Sets the allowance of a spender over the caller's tokens.

### `allowance`
Returns the remaining number of tokens that a spender is allowed to spend on behalf of an owner.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const ownerAddress = "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045"; // Placeholder
const spenderAddress = "0x27f320b7280911c7987a421a8138997a48d4b315"; // Placeholder
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function allowance(address owner, address spender) view returns (uint256)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getAllowance() {
  try {
    const allowance = await contract.allowance(ownerAddress, spenderAddress);
    console.log("Allowance:", allowance.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching allowance:", error);
  }
}

getAllowance();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL>, <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>, and the placeholder addresses with your actual data.
# Data is ABI-encoded: function selector + padded owner address + padded spender address
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0xdd62ed3e000000000000000000000000d8da6bf26964af9d7eed9e03e53415d37aa9604500000000000000000000000027f320b7280911c7987a421a8138997a48d4b315"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `name`
Returns the name of the token.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function name() view returns (string)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getName() {
  try {
    const name = await contract.name();
    console.log("Token Name:", name);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching name:", error);
  }
}

getName();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for name()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x06fdde03"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `symbol`
Returns the symbol of the token.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function symbol() view returns (string)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getSymbol() {
  try {
    const symbol = await contract.symbol();
    console.log("Token Symbol:", symbol);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching symbol:", error);
  }
}

getSymbol();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for symbol()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x95d89b41"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `decimals`
Returns the number of decimals used for the token.

<Warning>
**Decimal Handling**: The ERC20 precompile may need to handle complex decimal conversions between Cosmos native tokens and ERC20 representation. Some Cosmos tokens use 6 decimals (e.g., `uatom`) while ERC20 typically uses 18. Always verify the decimal count for accurate amount calculations.
</Warning>

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function decimals() view returns (uint8)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getDecimals() {
  try {
    const decimals = await contract.decimals();
    console.log("Token Decimals:", decimals.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching decimals:", error);
  }
}

getDecimals();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for decimals()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x313ce567"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

## Full Solidity Interface & ABI

```solidity title="ERC20 Solidity Interface" lines expandable
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
// OpenZeppelin Contracts (last updated v4.6.0) (token/ERC20/IERC20.sol)

pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

/**
 * @dev Interface of the ERC20 standard as defined in the EIP.
 */
interface IERC20 {
    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `value` tokens are moved from one account (`from`) to
     * another (`to`).
     *
     * Note that `value` may be zero.
     */
    event Transfer(address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 value);

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when the allowance of a `spender` for an `owner` is set by
     * a call to {approve}. `value` is the new allowance.
     */
    event Approval(address indexed owner, address indexed spender, uint256 value);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the amount of tokens in existence.
     */
    function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the amount of tokens owned by `account`.
     */
    function balanceOf(address account) external view returns (uint256);

    /**
     * @dev Moves `amount` tokens from the caller's account to `to`.
     *
     * Returns a boolean value indicating whether the operation succeeded.
     *
     * Emits a {Transfer} event.
     */
    function transfer(address to, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the remaining number of tokens that `spender` will be
     * allowed to spend on behalf of `owner` through {transferFrom}. This is
     * zero by default.
     *
     * This value changes when {approve} or {transferFrom} are called.
     */
    function allowance(address owner, address spender) external view returns (uint256);

    /**
     * @dev Sets `amount` as the allowance of `spender` over the caller's tokens.
     *
     * Returns a boolean value indicating whether the operation succeeded.
     *
     * IMPORTANT: Beware that changing an allowance with this method brings the risk
     * that someone may use both the old and the new allowance by unfortunate
     * transaction ordering. One possible solution to mitigate this race
     * condition is to first reduce the spender's allowance to 0 and set the
     * desired value afterwards:
     * https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/20#issuecomment-263524729
     *
     * Emits an {Approval} event.
     */
    function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);

    /**
     * @dev Moves `amount` tokens from `from` to `to` using the
     * allowance mechanism. `amount` is then deducted from the caller's
     * allowance.
     *
     * Returns a boolean value indicating whether the operation succeeded.
     *
     * Emits a {Transfer} event.
     */
    function transferFrom(address from, address to, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);
}
```

```json title="ERC20 ABI" lines expandable
{
  "_format": "hh-sol-artifact-1",
  "contractName": "IERC20MetadataAllowance",
  "sourceName": "solidity/precompiles/erc20/IERC20MetadataAllowance.sol",
  "abi": [
    {
      "anonymous": false,
      "inputs": [
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "owner",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": false,
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "value",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "Approval",
      "type": "event"
    },
    {
      "anonymous": false,
      "inputs": [
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "from",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "to",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": false,
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "value",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "Transfer",
      "type": "event"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "owner",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        }
      ],
      "name": "allowance",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "amount",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "approve",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "account",
          "type": "address"
        }
      ],
      "name": "balanceOf",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "decimals",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint8",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint8"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "subtractedValue",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "decreaseAllowance",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "approved",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "addedValue",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "increaseAllowance",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "approved",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "name",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "string",
          "name": "",
          "type": "string"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "symbol",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "string",
          "name": "",
          "type": "string"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "totalSupply",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "to",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "amount",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "transfer",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "from",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "to",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "amount",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "transferFrom",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    }
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

adds ibc module page, related notes to other pages

docs/documentation/smart-contracts/precompiles/erc20.mdx, after:

---
title: "ERC20"
description: "Standard ERC20 token functionality for native Cosmos tokens"
icon: "refresh-cw"
keywords: ['erc20', 'token', 'precompile', 'cosmos sdk', 'native token', 'token pair', 'fungible token', 'allowance', 'transfer', 'approve', 'balance', 'total supply', 'decimals', 'token standard']
---

## Overview
The ERC20 precompile provides a standard ERC20-compliant interface that allows EVM tooling and libraries to interact with native Cosmos SDK tokens stored in the bank module as if they were standard ERC20 tokens. Each registered token pair gets its own unique precompile contract address that directly interfaces with the bank module - no token conversion or wrapping occurs. All balances, transfers, and operations work directly on the native bank module token balances.

**Address**: Dynamic (assigned per token pair registration)

**Related Module**: [x/erc20](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/modules/erc20)

## Gas Costs

<Info>
Gas costs are approximated and may vary based on token complexity and chain settings.
</Info>

| Method | Gas Cost |
|---|---|
| `name()` | ~3,000 gas |
| `symbol()` | ~3,000 gas |
| `decimals()` | ~2,000 gas |
| `totalSupply()` | ~2,500 gas |
| `balanceOf(address)` | ~2,900 gas |
| `allowance(address,address)` | ~3,000 gas |
| `transfer(address,uint256)` | ~35,000 gas |
| `transferFrom(address,address,uint256)` | ~40,000 gas |
| `approve(address,uint256)` | ~30,000 gas |
| `increaseAllowance(address,uint256)` | ~30,500 gas |
| `decreaseAllowance(address,uint256)` | ~30,500 gas |

## Token Pair Registration

The ERC20 precompile works through a token pair registration system:

1. **Native Cosmos Token**: Each Cosmos SDK denomination (e.g., `uatom`, `stake`) exists as a native token in the bank module
2. **ERC20 Interface**: A corresponding ERC20 precompile contract provides an interface at a unique address
3. **Direct Bank Module Access**: The ERC20 interface operates directly on bank module balances - there is no separate ERC20 token state
4. **Dynamic Addresses**: Each token pair gets its own precompile address when registered

<Info>
The precompile address is deterministically generated based on the token denomination. Query the x/erc20 module to find the precompile address for a specific token.
</Info>

## Methods

### `totalSupply`
Returns the total amount of tokens in existence.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

// The address of the ERC20 precompile is dynamic, assigned when a token pair is registered.
const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

// A generic ERC20 ABI is sufficient for read-only calls
const erc20Abi = ["function totalSupply() view returns (uint256)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getTotalSupply() {
  try {
    const totalSupply = await contract.totalSupply();
    console.log("Total Supply:", totalSupply.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching total supply:", error);
  }
}

getTotalSupply();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for totalSupply()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x18160ddd"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `balanceOf`
Returns the token balance of a specified account.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const accountAddress = "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045"; // Placeholder
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function balanceOf(address account) view returns (uint256)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getBalance() {
  try {
    const balance = await contract.balanceOf(accountAddress);
    console.log(`Balance of ${accountAddress}:`, balance.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching balance:", error);
  }
}

getBalance();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL>, <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>, and the placeholder address with your actual data.
# Data is ABI-encoded: function selector + padded address
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x70a08231000000000000000000000000d8da6bf26964af9d7eed9e03e53415d37aa96045"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `transfer`
Moves tokens from the caller's account to a recipient.

### `transferFrom`
Moves tokens from one account to another using an allowance.

### `approve`
Sets the allowance of a spender over the caller's tokens.

### `allowance`
Returns the remaining number of tokens that a spender is allowed to spend on behalf of an owner.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const ownerAddress = "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045"; // Placeholder
const spenderAddress = "0x27f320b7280911c7987a421a8138997a48d4b315"; // Placeholder
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function allowance(address owner, address spender) view returns (uint256)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getAllowance() {
  try {
    const allowance = await contract.allowance(ownerAddress, spenderAddress);
    console.log("Allowance:", allowance.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching allowance:", error);
  }
}

getAllowance();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL>, <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>, and the placeholder addresses with your actual data.
# Data is ABI-encoded: function selector + padded owner address + padded spender address
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0xdd62ed3e000000000000000000000000d8da6bf26964af9d7eed9e03e53415d37aa9604500000000000000000000000027f320b7280911c7987a421a8138997a48d4b315"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `name`
Returns the name of the token.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function name() view returns (string)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getName() {
  try {
    const name = await contract.name();
    console.log("Token Name:", name);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching name:", error);
  }
}

getName();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for name()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x06fdde03"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `symbol`
Returns the symbol of the token.

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function symbol() view returns (string)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getSymbol() {
  try {
    const symbol = await contract.symbol();
    console.log("Token Symbol:", symbol);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching symbol:", error);
  }
}

getSymbol();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for symbol()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x95d89b41"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

### `decimals`
Returns the number of decimals used for the token.

<Warning>
**Decimal Handling**: The ERC20 precompile may need to handle complex decimal conversions between Cosmos native tokens and ERC20 representation. Some Cosmos tokens use 6 decimals (e.g., `uatom`) while ERC20 typically uses 18. Always verify the decimal count for accurate amount calculations.
</Warning>

<CodeGroup>
```javascript Ethers.js expandable lines
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const erc20PrecompileAddress = "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>";
const provider = new ethers.JsonRpcProvider("<RPC_URL>");

const erc20Abi = ["function decimals() view returns (uint8)"];
const contract = new ethers.Contract(erc20PrecompileAddress, erc20Abi, provider);

async function getDecimals() {
  try {
    const decimals = await contract.decimals();
    console.log("Token Decimals:", decimals.toString());
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching decimals:", error);
  }
}

getDecimals();
```
```bash cURL expandable lines
# Note: Replace <RPC_URL> and <ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS> with your actual data.
# Data is the function selector for decimals()
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "eth_call",
    "params": [
        {
            "to": "<ERC20_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS>",
            "data": "0x313ce567"
        },
        "latest"
    ],
    "id": 1
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" <RPC_URL>
```
</CodeGroup>

## Full Solidity Interface & ABI

```solidity title="ERC20 Solidity Interface" lines expandable
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
// OpenZeppelin Contracts (last updated v4.6.0) (token/ERC20/IERC20.sol)

pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

/**
 * @dev Interface of the ERC20 standard as defined in the EIP.
 */
interface IERC20 {
    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `value` tokens are moved from one account (`from`) to
     * another (`to`).
     *
     * Note that `value` may be zero.
     */
    event Transfer(address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 value);

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when the allowance of a `spender` for an `owner` is set by
     * a call to {approve}. `value` is the new allowance.
     */
    event Approval(address indexed owner, address indexed spender, uint256 value);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the amount of tokens in existence.
     */
    function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the amount of tokens owned by `account`.
     */
    function balanceOf(address account) external view returns (uint256);

    /**
     * @dev Moves `amount` tokens from the caller's account to `to`.
     *
     * Returns a boolean value indicating whether the operation succeeded.
     *
     * Emits a {Transfer} event.
     */
    function transfer(address to, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the remaining number of tokens that `spender` will be
     * allowed to spend on behalf of `owner` through {transferFrom}. This is
     * zero by default.
     *
     * This value changes when {approve} or {transferFrom} are called.
     */
    function allowance(address owner, address spender) external view returns (uint256);

    /**
     * @dev Sets `amount` as the allowance of `spender` over the caller's tokens.
     *
     * Returns a boolean value indicating whether the operation succeeded.
     *
     * IMPORTANT: Beware that changing an allowance with this method brings the risk
     * that someone may use both the old and the new allowance by unfortunate
     * transaction ordering. One possible solution to mitigate this race
     * condition is to first reduce the spender's allowance to 0 and set the
     * desired value afterwards:
     * https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/20#issuecomment-263524729
     *
     * Emits an {Approval} event.
     */
    function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);

    /**
     * @dev Moves `amount` tokens from `from` to `to` using the
     * allowance mechanism. `amount` is then deducted from the caller's
     * allowance.
     *
     * Returns a boolean value indicating whether the operation succeeded.
     *
     * Emits a {Transfer} event.
     */
    function transferFrom(address from, address to, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);
}
```

```json title="ERC20 ABI" lines expandable
{
  "_format": "hh-sol-artifact-1",
  "contractName": "IERC20MetadataAllowance",
  "sourceName": "solidity/precompiles/erc20/IERC20MetadataAllowance.sol",
  "abi": [
    {
      "anonymous": false,
      "inputs": [
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "owner",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": false,
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "value",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "Approval",
      "type": "event"
    },
    {
      "anonymous": false,
      "inputs": [
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "from",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": true,
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "to",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "indexed": false,
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "value",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "Transfer",
      "type": "event"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "owner",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        }
      ],
      "name": "allowance",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "amount",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "approve",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "account",
          "type": "address"
        }
      ],
      "name": "balanceOf",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "decimals",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint8",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint8"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "subtractedValue",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "decreaseAllowance",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "approved",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "spender",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "addedValue",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "increaseAllowance",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "approved",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "name",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "string",
          "name": "",
          "type": "string"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "symbol",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "string",
          "name": "",
          "type": "string"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [],
      "name": "totalSupply",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "view",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "to",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "amount",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "transfer",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    },
    {
      "inputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "from",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "address",
          "name": "to",
          "type": "address"
        },
        {
          "internalType": "uint256",
          "name": "amount",
          "type": "uint256"
        }
      ],
      "name": "transferFrom",
      "outputs": [
        {
          "internalType": "bool",
          "name": "",
          "type": "bool"
        }
      ],
      "stateMutability": "nonpayable",
      "type": "function"
    }
  ]
}
```
