docs/devnet/tooling/foundry.mdx, before:

---
title: "Foundry Guide: Setup & Walkthrough"
description: "A comprehensive guide to installing Foundry and using the cast CLI to interact with the Cosmos EVM, replacing complex scripts with simple, powerful commands."
---

Foundry is a fast, portable, and modular toolkit for Ethereum application development written in Rust. It provides four main command-line tools—**forge**, **cast**, **anvil**, and **chisel**—to streamline everything from project setup to live-chain interactions.

Among these, **cast** serves as your "Swiss-army knife" for JSON-RPC calls, letting you execute tedious day-to-day tasks (like sending raw transactions, querying balances, fetching blocks, and looking up chain metadata) with simple, consistent commands instead of verbose `curl` scripts.

This guide walks you through installing Foundry, configuring your environment, and using the most common **cast** commands to accelerate your development workflow.

## 1. Installation & Setup

### 1.1. Install Foundry

Run the following command to install `foundryup`, the Foundry toolchain installer. This will give you the four main binaries.

```bash
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
foundryup
```

After installation, you can switch to the nightly builds for the latest features, though this is optional.

```bash
foundryup -i nightly
```

### 1.2. Verify Installation

Check that each binary was installed correctly by running:

```bash
foundryup --version
cast --version
forge --version
anvil --version
```

You should see version outputs for each tool (e.g., `cast 0.2.0`).

## 2. Configuration

To avoid passing the `--rpc-url` flag with every command, you can set defaults in a `foundry.toml` file. This file can be placed in your project's root directory for project-specific settings, or you can create a global configuration at `~/.foundry/foundry.toml` for settings you use across all projects.

Here is an example of a global configuration for connecting to a local Cosmos EVM node:

```toml
# ~/.foundry/foundry.toml

# 1. Declare your named endpoints (optional; for forge test / forking)
[rpc_endpoints]
cosmos = "http://localhost:8545"

# 2. Configure the default profile for cast/forge/anvil
[profile.default]
# Tell Foundry which chain you're targeting:
chain_id     = 262144
# Directly tell cast to use your endpoint:
eth_rpc_url  = "http://localhost:8545"
```

With this global configuration, Foundry tools will automatically connect to your local node without needing additional flags.

## 3. Basic Usage of `cast`

**cast** replaces the need for custom shell scripts and verbose `curl` commands by offering first-class RPC commands.

### 3.1. Chain Metadata

- **Get Chain ID**
  ```bash
  cast chain-id --rpc-url local
  ```
  Returns the chain ID in decimal format.

- **Get Client Version**
  ```bash
  cast client --rpc-url local
  ```
  Displays the client implementation and version (e.g., `reth/v1.0.0`).

## 4. `cast` Command Reference

### Chain Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast chain` | Show the symbolic name of the current chain. |
| `cast chain-id` | Fetch the numeric chain ID. |
| `cast client` | Get the JSON-RPC client version. |

**Example**:
```bash
# Assuming FOUNDRY_RPC_URL is set or using a configured alias
cast chain
cast chain-id
cast client
```

### Transaction Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast send` | Sign and publish a transaction. |
| `cast publish` | Publish a raw, signed transaction. |
| `cast receipt` | Fetch the receipt for a transaction hash. |
| `cast tx` | Query transaction details (status, logs, etc.). |
| `cast rpc` | Invoke any raw JSON-RPC method. |

- **Sign and Send** (using a private key or local keystore):
  ```bash
  cast send 0xRecipientAddress "transfer(address,uint256)" "0xSomeOtherAddress,100" --private-key $YOUR_PK
  ```

- **Publish Raw Transaction** (hex-encoded):
  ```bash
  cast publish 0xf86b808504a817c80082520894...
  ```

- **Generic RPC Call**:
  ```bash
  cast rpc eth_sendRawTransaction 0xf86b8085...
  ```

### Account & Block Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast balance` | Get an account's balance (supports ENS and units). |
| `cast block` | Fetch block information by number or hash. |
| `cast block-number`| Get the latest block number. |
| `cast logs` | Query event logs. |

- **Get Balance** (with unit flag):
  ```bash
  # Using an ENS name on Ethereum mainnet
  cast balance vitalik.eth --ether --rpc-url https://eth.merkle.io
  ```

- **Get Block Details**:
  ```bash
  cast block latest
  ```

### Utility & Conversion Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast estimate` | Estimate gas for a call or deployment. |
| `cast find-block` | Find a block by its timestamp. |
| `cast compute-address`| Calculate a CREATE2 address. |
| `cast from-bin` | Decode binary data to hex. |
| `cast from-wei` | Convert wei to a more readable unit (e.g., ether). |
| `cast to-wei` | Convert a unit (e.g., ether) to wei. |
| `cast abi-encode` | Encode function arguments. |
| `cast keccak` | Hash data with Keccak-256. |

These commands allow you to drop one-off scripts for common conversions and estimations.

## 5. Scripting & Automation

Leverage **cast** in your CI pipelines, shell scripts, or Makefiles for robust automation.

```Makefile
RPC_URL := http://localhost:8545

send-tx:
	cast publish $(RAW_TX) --rpc-url $(RPC_URL)

get-balance:
	cast balance $(ADDR) --wei --rpc-url $(RPC_URL)
```

In your shell's configuration file (`~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`), you can alias `cast` with your default RPC URL to save time.

```bash
# Set your default RPC endpoint
export CDEV_RPC="http://localhost:8545"
# Create an alias
alias ccast='cast --rpc-url $CDEV_RPC'

# Now you can run commands like:
ccast balance 0x...
```

By standardizing on **cast** for everyday tasks, you eliminate custom boilerplate, gain consistent flag parsing, and future-proof your scripts.

Commit message:

de-generalize all references, improve and expand guides and tooling descriptions

docs/devnet/tooling/foundry.mdx, after:

---
title: "Foundry Guide: Setup & Walkthrough"
description: "An introduction to Foundry and using the `cast` function, replacing complex scripts that may otherwise require multiple rpc calls and other functions in between with a single command."
---

Foundry is a fast and modular toolkit for Ethereum application development written in Rust. It provides four main command-line tools—**forge**, **cast**, **anvil**, and **chisel**—to streamline everything from project setup to live-chain interactions.

Among these, **cast** serves as your "Swiss-army knife" for JSON-RPC calls, letting you execute tedious day-to-day tasks (like sending raw transactions, querying balances, fetching blocks, and looking up chain metadata) with simple, consistent commands instead of verbose `curl` scripts.

This guide walks you through installing Foundry, configuring your environment, and using the most common **cast** commands to accelerate your development workflow.

## Installation & Setup

### Install Foundry

Run the following command to install `foundryup`, the Foundry toolchain installer. This will give you the four main binaries.

```bash
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
foundryup
```

After installation, you can switch to the nightly builds for the latest features, though this is optional.

```bash
foundryup -i nightly
```

### Verify Installation

Check that each binary was installed correctly by running:

```bash
foundryup --version
cast --version
forge --version
anvil --version
```

You should see version outputs for each tool (e.g., `cast 0.2.0`).

## Configuration

To avoid passing the `--rpc-url` flag with every command, you can set defaults in a `foundry.toml` file. This file can be placed in your project's root directory for project-specific settings, or you can create a global configuration at `~/.foundry/foundry.toml` for settings you use across all projects.

Here is an example of a global configuration for connecting to a local Cosmos EVM node:

```toml
# ~/.foundry/foundry.toml

# Declare your named endpoints (optional; for forge test / forking)
[rpc_endpoints]
cosmos = "https://cevm-01-evmrpc.dev.skip.build"

# Configure the default profile for cast/forge/anvil
[profile.default]
# Tell Foundry which chain you're targeting:
chain_id     = 262144
# Directly tell cast to use your endpoint:
eth_rpc_url  = "https://cevm-01-evmrpc.dev.skip.build"
```

With this global configuration, Foundry tools will automatically connect to your local node without needing additional flags.

## Basic Usage of `cast`

**cast** replaces the need for custom shell scripts and verbose `curl` commands by offering first-class RPC commands.

### Chain Metadata

- **Get Chain ID**
  ```bash
  cast chain-id --rpc-url local
  ```
  Returns the chain ID in decimal format.

- **Get Client Version**
  ```bash
  cast client --rpc-url local
  ```
  Displays the client implementation and version (e.g., `reth/v1.0.0`).

## `cast` Command Reference

### Chain Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast chain` | Show the symbolic name of the current chain. |
| `cast chain-id` | Fetch the numeric chain ID. |
| `cast client` | Get the JSON-RPC client version. |

**Example**:
```bash
# Assuming FOUNDRY_RPC_URL is set or using a configured alias
cast chain
cast chain-id
cast client
```

### Transaction Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast send` | Sign and publish a transaction. |
| `cast publish` | Publish a raw, signed transaction. |
| `cast receipt` | Fetch the receipt for a transaction hash. |
| `cast tx` | Query transaction details (status, logs, etc.). |
| `cast rpc` | Invoke any raw JSON-RPC method. |

- **Sign and Send** (using a private key or local keystore):
  ```bash
  cast send 0xRecipientAddress "transfer(address,uint256)" "0xSomeOtherAddress,100" --private-key $YOUR_PK
  ```

- **Publish Raw Transaction** (hex-encoded):
  ```bash
  cast publish 0xf86b808504a817c80082520894...
  ```

- **Generic RPC Call**:
  ```bash
  cast rpc eth_sendRawTransaction 0xf86b8085...
  ```

### Account & Block Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast balance` | Get an account's balance (supports ENS and units). |
| `cast block` | Fetch block information by number or hash. |
| `cast block-number`| Get the latest block number. |
| `cast logs` | Query event logs. |

- **Get Balance** (with unit flag):
  ```bash
  # Using an ENS name on Ethereum mainnet
  cast balance vitalik.eth --ether --rpc-url https://eth.merkle.io
  ```

- **Get Block Details**:
  ```bash
  cast block latest
  ```

### Utility & Conversion Commands

| Command | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- |
| `cast estimate` | Estimate gas for a call or deployment. |
| `cast find-block` | Find a block by its timestamp. |
| `cast compute-address`| Calculate a CREATE2 address. |
| `cast from-bin` | Decode binary data to hex. |
| `cast from-wei` | Convert wei to a more readable unit (e.g., ether). |
| `cast to-wei` | Convert a unit (e.g., ether) to wei. |
| `cast abi-encode` | Encode function arguments. |
| `cast keccak` | Hash data with Keccak-256. |

These commands allow you to drop one-off scripts for common conversions and estimations.

## Streamlining Repetative / Tedious tasks

When performing testing or development roles you may find yourself doing one or more small but very
tedious tasks frequently.
In your shell's configuration file (`~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`), you can alias `cast` with your default RPC URL
(or multiple on various chains) to save time.

```bash
# Set your default RPC endpoint
export CDEV_RPC="https://cevm-01-evmrpc.dev.skip.build"
# Create an alias
alias ccast='cast --rpc-url $CDEV_RPC'

# Now you can run commands like:
ccast balance 0x...
```

This is an extremely basic example of how you can improve your workflows by building upon the heavy lifting Foundry already does out of the box.
