docs/next/documentation/integration/mempool-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: "EVM Mempool Integration"
description: "Integrate the EVM mempool with your Cosmos EVM chain"
---
<Danger>
This mempool is **experimental** and in active development. It is intended for testing and evaluation purposes. Use in production environments is **not recommended** without thorough testing and risk assessment.
Please [report issues](https://github.com/cosmos/evm/issues/new) and submit feedback to help improve stability.
</Danger>

## Overview

### Step 1: Add EVM Mempool to App Struct

Update your `app/app.go` to include the EVM mempool:

```go
type App struct {
    *baseapp.BaseApp
    // ... other keepers

    // Cosmos EVM keepers
    FeeMarketKeeper   feemarketkeeper.Keeper
    EVMKeeper         *evmkeeper.Keeper
    EVMMempool        *evmmempool.ExperimentalEVMMempool
}
```

### Step 2: Configure Mempool in NewApp Constructor

<Note>
The mempool must be initialized **after** the antehandler has been set in the app.
</Note>

Add the following configuration in your `NewApp` constructor:

```go
// Set the EVM priority nonce mempool
if evmtypes.GetChainConfig() != nil {
    mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
        AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
        BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000,
    }

    evmMempool := evmmempool.NewExperimentalEVMMempool(
        app.CreateQueryContext,
        logger,
        app.EVMKeeper,
        app.FeeMarketKeeper,
        app.txConfig,
        app.clientCtx,
        mempoolConfig,
    )
    app.EVMMempool = evmMempool

    // Replace BaseApp mempool
    app.SetMempool(evmMempool)

    // Set custom CheckTx handler for nonce gap support
    checkTxHandler := evmmempool.NewCheckTxHandler(evmMempool)
    app.SetCheckTxHandler(checkTxHandler)

    // Set custom PrepareProposal handler
    abciProposalHandler := baseapp.NewDefaultProposalHandler(evmMempool, app)
    abciProposalHandler.SetSignerExtractionAdapter(
        evmmempool.NewEthSignerExtractionAdapter(
            sdkmempool.NewDefaultSignerExtractionAdapter(),
        ),
    )
    app.SetPrepareProposal(abciProposalHandler.PrepareProposalHandler())
}
```

<Warning>
**v0.5.0 Breaking Change:** The global mempool registry (`SetGlobalEVMMempool`) has been removed. Mempool is now passed directly to the JSON-RPC server during initialization.
</Warning>

## Configuration Options

The `EVMMempoolConfig` struct provides several configuration options for customizing the mempool behavior:

### Minimal Configuration

```go
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000, // 100M gas limit
}
```

### Full Configuration Options (v0.5.0+)

```go
type EVMMempoolConfig struct {
    // Required: AnteHandler for transaction validation
    AnteHandler   sdk.AnteHandler

    // Required: Block gas limit for transaction selection
    BlockGasLimit uint64

    // Optional: Custom legacy pool configuration (replaces TxPool)
    LegacyPoolConfig *legacypool.Config

    // Optional: Custom Cosmos pool configuration (replaces CosmosPool)
    CosmosPoolConfig *sdkmempool.PriorityNonceMempoolConfig[math.Int]

    // Optional: Custom broadcast function for promoted transactions
    BroadCastTxFn func(txs []*ethtypes.Transaction) error
}
```

### v0.4.x to v0.5.0 Migration

**Breaking Change:** Pre-built pools replaced with configuration objects

**Before (v0.4.x):**
```go
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    TxPool:     customTxPool,      // ← REMOVED
    CosmosPool: customCosmosPool,  // ← REMOVED
    AnteHandler: app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000,
}
```

**After (v0.5.0):**
```go
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    LegacyPoolConfig: &legacypool.Config{     // ← NEW
        AccountSlots: 16,
        GlobalSlots:  5120,
        PriceLimit:   1,
        // ... other config options
    },
    CosmosPoolConfig: &sdkmempool.PriorityNonceMempoolConfig[math.Int]{ // ← NEW
        TxPriority: customPriorityConfig,
    },
    AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000,
}
```

### Custom Cosmos Mempool Configuration

The mempool uses a `PriorityNonceMempool` for Cosmos transactions by default. You can customize the priority calculation:

```go
// Define custom priority calculation for Cosmos transactions
priorityConfig := sdkmempool.PriorityNonceMempoolConfig[math.Int]{
    TxPriority: sdkmempool.TxPriority[math.Int]{
        GetTxPriority: func(goCtx context.Context, tx sdk.Tx) math.Int {
            feeTx, ok := tx.(sdk.FeeTx)
            if !ok {
                return math.ZeroInt()
            }

            // Get fee in bond denomination
            bondDenom := "uatom" // or your chain's bond denom
            fee := feeTx.GetFee()
            found, coin := fee.Find(bondDenom)
            if !found {
                return math.ZeroInt()
            }

            // Calculate gas price: fee_amount / gas_limit
            gasPrice := coin.Amount.Quo(math.NewIntFromUint64(feeTx.GetGas()))
            return gasPrice
        },
        Compare: func(a, b math.Int) int {
            return a.BigInt().Cmp(b.BigInt()) // Higher values have priority
        },
        MinValue: math.ZeroInt(),
    },
}

mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    AnteHandler:      app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit:    100_000_000,
    CosmosPoolConfig: &priorityConfig, // Pass config instead of pre-built pool
}
```

### Custom Block Gas Limit

Different chains may require different gas limits based on their capacity:

```go
// Example: 50M gas limit for lower capacity chains
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 50_000_000,
}
```

## Architecture Components

The EVM mempool consists of several key components:

### ExperimentalEVMMempool

The main coordinator implementing Cosmos SDK's `ExtMempool` interface (`mempool/mempool.go`).

**Key Methods**:
- `Insert(ctx, tx)`: Routes transactions to appropriate pools
- `Select(ctx, filter)`: Returns unified iterator over all transactions
- `Remove(tx)`: Handles transaction removal with EVM-specific logic
- `InsertInvalidNonce(txBytes)`: Queues nonce-gapped EVM transactions locally

### CheckTx Handler

Custom transaction validation that handles nonce gaps specially (`mempool/check_tx.go`).

**Special Handling**: On `ErrNonceGap` for EVM transactions:
```go
if errors.Is(err, ErrNonceGap) {
    // Route to local queue instead of rejecting
    err := mempool.InsertInvalidNonce(request.Tx)
    // Must intercept error and return success to EVM client
    return interceptedSuccess
}
```

### TxPool

Direct port of Ethereum's transaction pool managing both pending and queued transactions (`mempool/txpool/`).

**Key Features**:
- Uses `vm.StateDB` interface for Cosmos state compatibility
- Implements `BroadcastTxFn` callback for transaction promotion
- Cosmos-specific reset logic for instant finality

### PriorityNonceMempool

Standard Cosmos SDK mempool for non-EVM transactions with fee-based prioritization.

**Default Priority Calculation**:
```go
// Calculate effective gas price
priority = (fee_amount / gas_limit) - base_fee
```

## Transaction Type Routing

The mempool handles different transaction types appropriately:

### Ethereum Transactions (MsgEthereumTx)

- **Tier 1 (Local)**: EVM TxPool handles nonce gaps and promotion
- **Tier 2 (Network)**: CometBFT broadcasts executable transactions

### Cosmos Transactions (Bank, Staking, Gov, etc.)

- **Direct to Tier 2**: Always go directly to CometBFT mempool
- **Standard Flow**: Follow normal Cosmos SDK validation and broadcasting
- **Priority-Based**: Use PriorityNonceMempool for fee-based ordering

## Unified Transaction Selection

During block building, both transaction types compete fairly based on their effective tips:

```go
// Simplified selection logic
func SelectTransactions() Iterator {
    evmTxs := GetPendingEVMTransactions()      // From local TxPool
    cosmosTxs := GetPendingCosmosTransactions() // From Cosmos mempool

    return NewUnifiedIterator(evmTxs, cosmosTxs) // Fee-based priority
}
```

**Fee Comparison**:
- **EVM**: `gas_tip_cap` or `min(gas_tip_cap, gas_fee_cap - base_fee)`
- **Cosmos**: `(fee_amount / gas_limit) - base_fee`
- **Selection**: Higher effective tip gets selected first

## Testing Your Integration

### Verify Nonce Gap Handling

Test that transactions with nonce gaps are properly queued:

```javascript
// Send transactions out of order
await wallet.sendTransaction({nonce: 100, ...}); // OK: Immediate execution
await wallet.sendTransaction({nonce: 102, ...}); // OK: Queued locally (gap)
await wallet.sendTransaction({nonce: 101, ...}); // OK: Fills gap, both execute
```

### Test Transaction Replacement

Verify that higher-fee transactions replace lower-fee ones:

```javascript
// Send initial transaction
const tx1 = await wallet.sendTransaction({
  nonce: 100,
  gasPrice: parseUnits("20", "gwei")
});

// Replace with higher fee
const tx2 = await wallet.sendTransaction({
  nonce: 100, // Same nonce
  gasPrice: parseUnits("30", "gwei") // Higher fee
});
// tx1 is replaced by tx2
```

### Verify Batch Deployments

Test typical deployment scripts (like Uniswap) that send many transactions at once:

```javascript
// Deploy multiple contracts in quick succession
const factory = await Factory.deploy();
const router = await Router.deploy(factory.address);
const multicall = await Multicall.deploy();
// All transactions should queue and execute properly
```

## Monitoring and Debugging

Use the [txpool RPC methods](/docs/next/api-reference/ethereum-json-rpc/methods#txpool-methods) to monitor mempool state:

- `txpool_status`: Get pending and queued transaction counts
- `txpool_content`: View all transactions in the pool
- `txpool_inspect`: Get human-readable transaction summaries
- `txpool_contentFrom`: View transactions from specific addresses

## Related Documentation

- [Mempool Concepts](/docs/next/documentation/concepts/mempool) - Understanding mempool behavior and design
- [EVM Module Integration](/docs/next/documentation/integration/evm-module-integration) - Prerequisites for mempool integration
- [JSON-RPC Methods](/docs/next/api-reference/ethereum-json-rpc/methods#txpool-methods) - Mempool query methods

Commit message:

add config changes, mempool specifics, reorganize content

docs/next/documentation/integration/mempool-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: "EVM Mempool Integration"
description: "Integrate the EVM mempool with your Cosmos EVM chain"
tags: ["mempool"]
---
<Danger>
This mempool is **experimental** and in active development. It is intended for testing and evaluation purposes. Use in production environments is **not recommended** without thorough testing and risk assessment.
Please [report issues](https://github.com/cosmos/evm/issues/new) and submit feedback to help improve stability.
</Danger>

## Overview

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for integrating the EVM mempool into your Cosmos EVM chain. For conceptual information about mempool design and architecture, see the [Mempool Concepts](/docs/next/documentation/concepts/mempool) page.

### Step 1: Add EVM Mempool to App Struct

Update your `app/app.go` to include the EVM mempool:

```go
type App struct {
    *baseapp.BaseApp
    // ... other keepers

    // Cosmos EVM keepers
    FeeMarketKeeper   feemarketkeeper.Keeper
    EVMKeeper         *evmkeeper.Keeper
    EVMMempool        *evmmempool.ExperimentalEVMMempool
}
```

### Step 2: Configure Mempool in NewApp Constructor

<Note>
The mempool must be initialized **after** the antehandler has been set in the app.
</Note>

Add the following configuration in your `NewApp` constructor:

```go
// Set the EVM priority nonce mempool
if evmtypes.GetChainConfig() != nil {
    mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
        AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
        BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000,
    }

    evmMempool := evmmempool.NewExperimentalEVMMempool(
        app.CreateQueryContext,
        logger,
        app.EVMKeeper,
        app.FeeMarketKeeper,
        app.txConfig,
        app.clientCtx,
        mempoolConfig,
    )
    app.EVMMempool = evmMempool

    // Replace BaseApp mempool
    app.SetMempool(evmMempool)

    // Set custom CheckTx handler for nonce gap support
    checkTxHandler := evmmempool.NewCheckTxHandler(evmMempool)
    app.SetCheckTxHandler(checkTxHandler)

    // Set custom PrepareProposal handler
    abciProposalHandler := baseapp.NewDefaultProposalHandler(evmMempool, app)
    abciProposalHandler.SetSignerExtractionAdapter(
        evmmempool.NewEthSignerExtractionAdapter(
            sdkmempool.NewDefaultSignerExtractionAdapter(),
        ),
    )
    app.SetPrepareProposal(abciProposalHandler.PrepareProposalHandler())
}
```

<Warning>
**v0.5.0 Breaking Change:** The global mempool registry (`SetGlobalEVMMempool`) has been removed. Mempool is now passed directly to the JSON-RPC server during initialization.
</Warning>

## Configuration Options

The `EVMMempoolConfig` struct provides several configuration options for customizing the mempool behavior:

### Minimal Configuration

```go
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000, // 100M gas limit
}
```

### Full Configuration Options (v0.5.0+)

```go
type EVMMempoolConfig struct {
    // Required: AnteHandler for transaction validation
    AnteHandler   sdk.AnteHandler

    // Required: Block gas limit for transaction selection
    BlockGasLimit uint64

    // Optional: Custom legacy pool configuration (replaces TxPool)
    LegacyPoolConfig *legacypool.Config

    // Optional: Custom Cosmos pool configuration (replaces CosmosPool)
    CosmosPoolConfig *sdkmempool.PriorityNonceMempoolConfig[math.Int]

    // Optional: Custom broadcast function for promoted transactions
    BroadCastTxFn func(txs []*ethtypes.Transaction) error
}
```

### v0.4.x to v0.5.0 Migration

**Breaking Change:** Pre-built pools replaced with configuration objects

**Before (v0.4.x):**
```go
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    TxPool:     customTxPool,      // ← REMOVED
    CosmosPool: customCosmosPool,  // ← REMOVED
    AnteHandler: app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000,
}
```

**After (v0.5.0):**
```go
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    LegacyPoolConfig: &legacypool.Config{     // ← NEW
        AccountSlots: 16,
        GlobalSlots:  5120,
        PriceLimit:   1,
        // ... other config options
    },
    CosmosPoolConfig: &sdkmempool.PriorityNonceMempoolConfig[math.Int]{ // ← NEW
        TxPriority: customPriorityConfig,
    },
    AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 100_000_000,
}
```

### Custom Cosmos Mempool Configuration

The mempool uses a `PriorityNonceMempool` for Cosmos transactions by default. You can customize the priority calculation:

```go
// Define custom priority calculation for Cosmos transactions
priorityConfig := sdkmempool.PriorityNonceMempoolConfig[math.Int]{
    TxPriority: sdkmempool.TxPriority[math.Int]{
        GetTxPriority: func(goCtx context.Context, tx sdk.Tx) math.Int {
            feeTx, ok := tx.(sdk.FeeTx)
            if !ok {
                return math.ZeroInt()
            }

            // Get fee in bond denomination
            bondDenom := "uatom" // or your chain's bond denom
            fee := feeTx.GetFee()
            found, coin := fee.Find(bondDenom)
            if !found {
                return math.ZeroInt()
            }

            // Calculate gas price: fee_amount / gas_limit
            gasPrice := coin.Amount.Quo(math.NewIntFromUint64(feeTx.GetGas()))
            return gasPrice
        },
        Compare: func(a, b math.Int) int {
            return a.BigInt().Cmp(b.BigInt()) // Higher values have priority
        },
        MinValue: math.ZeroInt(),
    },
}

mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    AnteHandler:      app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit:    100_000_000,
    CosmosPoolConfig: &priorityConfig, // Pass config instead of pre-built pool
}
```

### Custom Block Gas Limit

Different chains may require different gas limits based on their capacity:

```go
// Example: 50M gas limit for lower capacity chains
mempoolConfig := &evmmempool.EVMMempoolConfig{
    AnteHandler:   app.GetAnteHandler(),
    BlockGasLimit: 50_000_000,
}
```

## Architecture Components

The EVM mempool consists of several key components:

### ExperimentalEVMMempool

The main coordinator implementing Cosmos SDK's `ExtMempool` interface (`mempool/mempool.go`).

**Key Methods**:
- `Insert(ctx, tx)`: Routes transactions to appropriate pools
- `Select(ctx, filter)`: Returns unified iterator over all transactions
- `Remove(tx)`: Handles transaction removal with EVM-specific logic
- `InsertInvalidNonce(txBytes)`: Queues nonce-gapped EVM transactions locally

### CheckTx Handler

Custom transaction validation that handles nonce gaps specially (`mempool/check_tx.go`).

**Special Handling**: On `ErrNonceGap` for EVM transactions:
```go
if errors.Is(err, ErrNonceGap) {
    // Route to local queue instead of rejecting
    err := mempool.InsertInvalidNonce(request.Tx)
    // Must intercept error and return success to EVM client
    return interceptedSuccess
}
```

### TxPool

Direct port of Ethereum's transaction pool managing both pending and queued transactions (`mempool/txpool/`).

**Key Features**:
- Uses `vm.StateDB` interface for Cosmos state compatibility
- Implements `BroadcastTxFn` callback for transaction promotion
- Cosmos-specific reset logic for instant finality

### PriorityNonceMempool

Standard Cosmos SDK mempool for non-EVM transactions with fee-based prioritization.

**Default Priority Calculation**:
```go
// Calculate effective gas price
priority = (fee_amount / gas_limit) - base_fee
```

## Transaction Type Routing

The mempool handles different transaction types appropriately:

### Ethereum Transactions (MsgEthereumTx)

- **Tier 1 (Local)**: EVM TxPool handles nonce gaps and promotion
- **Tier 2 (Network)**: CometBFT broadcasts executable transactions

### Cosmos Transactions (Bank, Staking, Gov, etc.)

- **Direct to Tier 2**: Always go directly to CometBFT mempool
- **Standard Flow**: Follow normal Cosmos SDK validation and broadcasting
- **Priority-Based**: Use PriorityNonceMempool for fee-based ordering

## Unified Transaction Selection

During block building, both transaction types compete fairly based on their effective tips:

```go
// Simplified selection logic
func SelectTransactions() Iterator {
    evmTxs := GetPendingEVMTransactions()      // From local TxPool
    cosmosTxs := GetPendingCosmosTransactions() // From Cosmos mempool

    return NewUnifiedIterator(evmTxs, cosmosTxs) // Fee-based priority
}
```

**Fee Comparison**:
- **EVM**: `gas_tip_cap` or `min(gas_tip_cap, gas_fee_cap - base_fee)`
- **Cosmos**: `(fee_amount / gas_limit) - base_fee`
- **Selection**: Higher effective tip gets selected first

## Testing Your Integration

### Verify Nonce Gap Handling

Test that transactions with nonce gaps are properly queued:

```javascript
// Send transactions out of order
await wallet.sendTransaction({nonce: 100, ...}); // OK: Immediate execution
await wallet.sendTransaction({nonce: 102, ...}); // OK: Queued locally (gap)
await wallet.sendTransaction({nonce: 101, ...}); // OK: Fills gap, both execute
```

### Test Transaction Replacement

Verify that higher-fee transactions replace lower-fee ones:

```javascript
// Send initial transaction
const tx1 = await wallet.sendTransaction({
  nonce: 100,
  gasPrice: parseUnits("20", "gwei")
});

// Replace with higher fee
const tx2 = await wallet.sendTransaction({
  nonce: 100, // Same nonce
  gasPrice: parseUnits("30", "gwei") // Higher fee
});
// tx1 is replaced by tx2
```

### Verify Batch Deployments

Test typical deployment scripts (like Uniswap) that send many transactions at once:

```javascript
// Deploy multiple contracts in quick succession
const factory = await Factory.deploy();
const router = await Router.deploy(factory.address);
const multicall = await Multicall.deploy();
// All transactions should queue and execute properly
```

## Monitoring and Debugging

Use the [txpool RPC methods](/docs/next/api-reference/ethereum-json-rpc/methods#txpool-methods) to monitor mempool state:

- `txpool_status`: Get pending and queued transaction counts
- `txpool_content`: View all transactions in the pool
- `txpool_inspect`: Get human-readable transaction summaries
- `txpool_contentFrom`: View transactions from specific addresses

## Related Documentation

- [Mempool Concepts](/docs/next/documentation/concepts/mempool) - Understanding mempool behavior and design
- [EVM Module Integration](/docs/next/documentation/integration/evm-module-integration) - Prerequisites for mempool integration
- [JSON-RPC Methods](/docs/next/api-reference/ethereum-json-rpc/methods#txpool-methods) - Mempool query methods
